# Developers guide

## Project structure
The code is organized as follows:

- `sql.core`: Standard SQL domain classes and services
  - `sql.core.schema`: contains the entities that represent the sql objects
  - `sql.core.services`: contains the services that operate over such entities:
    - `sql.core.services.builders`: contains different builders to help in the `sqlobjectschema` construction process.
    - `sql.core.services.fetcher`: tool to generate a `sqlobjectschema` instance from a real database schema. This 
      package contains the interfaces that can be implemented with a dialect of SQL.
    - `sql.core.services.parser`: standard SQL parsing service.
    - `sql.core.services.validator`: tool to check the correctness of a `sqlobjectschema` instance.
    - `sql.core.services.printer`: printer service to express a `sqlobjectschema` in standard SQL expressions.
- `sql.sql_server`: SQLServer services
  - `sql.sql_server.services`
    - `sql.core.services.fetcher`: Specific fetcher for SQLServer databases. Conversions are needed.
    - `sql.core.services.printer`: printer service to express a `sqlobjectschema` in SQLServer expressions. Conversions are needed.

## Guidance for creating a SQLObjectSchema

As a general rule, entities of a `SQLObjectSchema` should not be used in other schemas.

## Guidance for creating equals & hashcode

A new implementation of the equals & hashcode methods has been used for every `SQLObjectSchemaValueObject`, overwriting the 
original Java base implementations. This is to facilitate and standardize the comparison of different schema entities.

The default implementation used has been `Intellij Default`.

## Testing code

### To test or not to test

- Setters, getters, and similar trivial functions won't be tested unless they include additional logic
- Private methods will be considered implementation details, and won't be tested
- Equals & hashCodes that are trivial (generated by the IDE) won't be tested either

### Test Naming Conventions

Unit tests classes contain the suffix `Test` while integrations tests the suffix `IT`.

When naming specific tests an exact convention is not used but each test name should express what the test is tesing and
the expected result.

Different tests of the same test class can be grouped using the `@Nested` tag under unifying characteristics.


## Domain class visitors

Generic methods defined in a visitor interface can be used to implement visitors with specific return types.

However, it is left to the developer to correctly enforce that the type returned matches the expected type, otherwise
there could be ```ClassCastExceptions``` thrown at execution time.

Below, there is an example of how to correctly use the generic visitor methods:
```Java

// In a visitable class VisitableClass:
class VisitableClass {
  // ...
  @Override
  public <T> T visit(Visitor visitor) {
    return visitor.visit(this);
  }
  // ...
}

// In a function of the Visitor class that needs to call the visit method from above:
class Visitor {
  // ...
  // Notice how the expected return type is indicated between "<>" immediately in front of the visit call. 
  MyExpectedType visit(VisitableClass vc) {
      return vc.<MyExpectedType>visit(this);
  }
  // ...
}

```
